projects/project-1/README2.md, before:

# Project Part 1: Scoping

Imagine you've been hired at a top data consulting firm. They are a new group that tackles contemporary issues from an analytical angle. Sometimes there are clients, but oftentimes the team publishes with the intention of releasing their findings into the public domain. As a new analyst, you've been given free reign to *define a project of your choosing*. 

Before setting sail on your project, however, the director must approve your plan of action. This document is incredibly important as it sets the *scope* of the project. No surprise, we call it the **scoping document**. Everything from how the data will be collected to  what kinds of conclusions you're hoping to draw should be described. 

## Idea Generation

Your first goal is to identify a research idea you'd be interested in researching for the next ten weeks. This can come from anything – personal dataset (i.e. a workout app) or federal agencies (i.e. the US Census).  

Here's a few miscellaneous lists of datasets if you're looking for ideas:

- Datasets from an old stats class: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DDaD_oAOZtWLHKbraTcDsMv7uxs8Tqn07ekKjMrh0eE/edit?usp=sharing)
- Big datasets used in applied econ: [Blog](https://sebastiantellotrillo.com/resources/primer-where-to-find-data)
- A data visualization competition with 150+ datasets: [GitHub](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday#datasets)
- A publically avaliable compiliation of data used by the Virginia government: [VODP](https://data.virginia.gov/)

## Deliverable: The Scoping Document

We'll use the following structure adapted from the [Center for Data Science and Public Policy](http://www.datasciencepublicpolicy.org/home/resources/data-science-project-scoping-guide/) at the University of Chicago. We expect 4 brief sections that outline your thoughts on the following:

- **Goals** – Define the goal(s) of the project. What questions are you hoping to answer?
- **Data Collection** – What data do you need to answer your questions? What data do you have access to?
- **Analysis** – What patterns would you hope to show? How will you describe the data? Are there any columns that can be predicted?
- **Ethical Considerations** – How can this project support inclusion and equality? Are there similar cases, either historical or ongoing? How did these projects navigate the ethical issues around data collection or usage?

Submit a 1-page, single-spaced ***PDF document*** to Daniel via Slack no later than ***Sunday, February 26th*** at 1pm that has each of the sections above. Only one submission per group, make sure it has all group member names on the top. 

Any questions? Let Daniel or any of the PCs know on Slack! We're more than happy to help. 

![Source: Center for Policy Research, United Nations University](ethical-ai.jpg)

Commit message:

added a google sheet for project team formation in project 1 readmes

projects/project-1/README2.md, after:

# Project Part 1: Scoping

Imagine you've been hired at a top data consulting firm. They are a new group that tackles contemporary issues from an analytical angle. Sometimes there are clients, but oftentimes the team publishes with the intention of releasing their findings into the public domain. As a new analyst, you've been given free reign to *define a project of your choosing*. 

Before setting sail on your project, however, the director must approve your plan of action. This document is incredibly important as it sets the *scope* of the project. No surprise, we call it the **scoping document**. Everything from how the data will be collected to  what kinds of conclusions you're hoping to draw should be described. 

## Group Formation

The first step is to create a group where you will all work together on this project throughout the course. The group should not exceed 3 people, but multiple groups can work on similar (but not the same!) problems. For example, if another group has already chosen to analyze NCAA Basketball data, feel free to look at NFL data, but not NBA data. The spreadsheet linked below will bring you to a place where everyone can put down their names and interests. Don't be afraid to start a new row with your own interests also!

Project Team Formation: [![Link](../tools/buttons/open-drive.svg)](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1XJ-UlraRlytaW9-K4aMaoKxy9JdYzUhOCp2P63fAHHY/edit?usp=sharing)

## Idea Generation

Your first goal is to identify a research idea you'd be interested in researching for the next ten weeks. This can come from anything – personal dataset (i.e. a workout app) or federal agencies (i.e. the US Census).  

Here's a few miscellaneous lists of datasets if you're looking for ideas:

- Datasets from an old stats class: [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1DDaD_oAOZtWLHKbraTcDsMv7uxs8Tqn07ekKjMrh0eE/edit?usp=sharing)
- Big datasets used in applied econ: [Blog](https://sebastiantellotrillo.com/resources/primer-where-to-find-data)
- A data visualization competition with 150+ datasets: [GitHub](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday#datasets)
- A publically avaliable compiliation of data used by the Virginia government: [VODP](https://data.virginia.gov/)

## Deliverable: The Scoping Document

We'll use the following structure adapted from the [Center for Data Science and Public Policy](http://www.datasciencepublicpolicy.org/home/resources/data-science-project-scoping-guide/) at the University of Chicago. We expect 4 brief sections that outline your thoughts on the following:

- **Goals** – Define the goal(s) of the project. What questions are you hoping to answer?
- **Data Collection** – What data do you need to answer your questions? What data do you have access to?
- **Analysis** – What patterns would you hope to show? How will you describe the data? Are there any columns that can be predicted?
- **Ethical Considerations** – How can this project support inclusion and equality? Are there similar cases, either historical or ongoing? How did these projects navigate the ethical issues around data collection or usage?

Submit a 1-page, single-spaced ***PDF document*** to Daniel via Slack no later than ***Sunday, February 26th*** at 1pm that has each of the sections above. Only one submission per group, make sure it has all group member names on the top. 

Any questions? Let Daniel or any of the PCs know on Slack! We're more than happy to help. 

![Source: Center for Policy Research, United Nations University](ethical-ai.jpg)
